In this video we'll cover some
aspects of monitoring the
behaviour of your CrateDB
cluster and understanding how
queries are executed.
I'll also show you how CrateDB
can be used as a long term
storage, analysis and
visualisation platform for
metrics gathered from other
systems via Telegraf or
Prometheus.
Let's jump right in.
You can monitor the behaviour of
a CrateDB cluster using JMX
Java Management Extensions.
I'll demonstrate this using a
Docker image.
This command starts a single
node cluster with some
additional configuration for
JMX.
We'll use port 7979 as the
remote JMX port.
JConsole is a basic graphical
application supplied with Java
that can connect to a JMX agent.
I'm connecting it to port 7979
so that it can attach to the
agent running in the CrateDB
docker instance.
Once connected, JConsole starts
to display metrics from the
CrateDB node running inside
Docker.
Here we see an overview.
We can also focus on memory
usage, and finally we can drill
down into the details of each
thread in the JVM.
The CrateDB admin interface
has an overview screen that
allows you to monitor key
operational statistics.
Scrolling down, we see live
charts that show data pertaining
to query speed.
These are displayed as an
overall value as well as by type
of query: selects, inserts,
updates and deletes.
Another tool that's available to
you when monitoring the
performance of your CrateDB
cluster is the EXPLAIN command.
This command displays the
execution plan for a given
query.
Invoke it by prepending EXPLAIN
to the query you want to
analyse.
Here I'm analysing a SELECT
query that uses our 311 call
data, and here's the plan for
that query.
Please refer to the
documentation for the EXPLAIN
command to understand the output
here.
There's also a verbose mode that
returns additional details.
Use it by prepending your query
with EXPLAIN VERBOSE.
This returns a more human
readable version of the plan
with a breakdown of the steps
performed by the query
optimizer.
Finally, there's a third
variant, EXPLAIN ANALYZE.
In this case the plan is
executed and the timings
associated with the different
phases are returned.
To learn more about the output
here, please consult the EXPLAIN
documentation in the CrateDB
documentation portal.
CrateDB also makes an excellent
data store and analysis platform
for metrics data generated by
other systems.
Let's see how this works for two
popular solutions, Telegraf and
Prometheus.
Telegraf is a server based
agent for collecting metrics and
sending them for further
processing.
These metrics originate from a
variety of data sources, for
example via HTTP, from sensors,
perhaps via MQTT, or from cloud
services.
These are sent to Telegraf
which uses its plug in
architecture to ingest, process,
aggregate and output data.
Metrics can then be stored in
CrateDB using Telegraf's
Postgres output plug in.
It's a simple matter of
connecting the plug in with the
connection URL for the CrateDB
cluster.
Once the data's in CrateDB,
you can use standard SQL to
analyse it, as well as
leveraging popular visualisation
tools such as Grafana to build
custom dashboards of your own.
Prometheus is an open source
systems monitoring and alerting
toolkit.
It collects and stores metrics
data.
It's great for short term
storage and using the CrateDB
Prometheus adaptor.
This metrics data can seamlessly
flow into CrateDB where it can
be stored long term and accessed
using the power of CrateDB SQL
engine.
Of course, you can also still
use standard tools such as
Grafana to build custom
dashboards and other
visualizations.
You should now have a high level
understanding of how to monitor
your CrateDB cluster and dig
into query behaviour.
We also showed you how to use
CrateDB as an analytics
database for monitoring the
behaviour of other systems with
metrics collected by standard
frameworks such as Telegraf and
Prometheus.
For more information, be sure to
check out CrateDB documentation
online as well as the resources
associated with this video.